Any questions about microservices or
this, yeah?
>> Speaker 1: If you have two different
databases, like this example,
does it matter if they are in
the same server, like, MySQL service?
>> Erik Reinert: Yes, yeah, you would
not want them in the same service.
When we talk about microservices, I should
never have to go to another team and
say, hey, is it okay if I do this,
that's friction, right?
The goal of microservices is to alleviate
friction by having logical isolation
between each one of the systems.
And actually, what you see here of
a database per service is probably one of
the cornerstones for
a microservice architecture.
And what makes it so
hard is that a lot of people can't even
structure their data this way, right?
Because at some point, you might have to
look up something somewhere else, right?
And so, it becomes very challenging
to say, okay, well, payments only
exist in payments, but there's gotta be
a way for us to link a payment to a user.
So, how do we do that, right?
And that might mean that there's another
service that is, like invoices, and
maybe that's a service that now
joins payments and users together,
or maybe you find out other
ways of doing it, right?
But there really should be
a clear isolation to where,
if I need to do database migrations,
right, stuff like that,
I'm not really impacting the users
that are using my service.
I'm just impacting myself, and then I can
just say, hey, go update your client.
Microservice architecture and even
service architecture is really focused
on making these, if we go all the way
back to the beginning, modularity.
This is modularity and its most extensive
or almost most extensive, right?
You can think of the LEGOs or
whatever kind of scenario you want, but
you should be able to, like, if I wanted
to, I should be able to pick up users.
And put it somewhere else, and
I'm not impacting payments and
anything that's happening with that.
>> Speaker 1: What's the best way to
communicate between microservices?
>> Erik Reinert: That is a tough question
to answer [LAUGH], mostly because it
depends on your transactions, and
what kind of messaging you need, right?
What we're looking at
here is a very simple,
restful kinda transactional approach
where more than likely what will
happen is that a user will make
a request to the front end, right?
And while this user's waiting, the front
end's going out to the users table,
getting the data it needs, going out to
the payments table, getting what it needs.
And do you remember that reference I said
earlier about the guy in the video who's
like, but then we got to go here,
go here, [INAUDIBLE], that's the problem.
That's the problem, is that at some point,
if you even go with this approach,
somebody's gonna be waiting, basically for
that process to come back and
for it to finally resolve and respond.
And that's what that guy is
talking about in that video,
jokingly, is like,
it might take five minutes for
her request to populate properly just
because it's so distributed, right?
And again, going back to when
I was interviewing at Netflix,
this was a problem that I was gonna
be brought on to solve, which is,
they have such a huge distribution.
How can they avoid the hops to get
people in the system quicker, right?
And so,
what you could lean on then is like,
event-based systems where you say like,
okay, we're gonna remove the front end and
we're gonna put like
an event bus in front of it.
And then everything becomes asynchronous
to where one request pops over here.
And then once that happens,
something else is listening for
that request to be done, so
then it can then take on its next step and
that just makes it a lot
faster in the backend.
So, you have to be really careful with how
even this scenario plays out because you
can easily add a lot of, again,
going back to the UUIDs doesn't scale.
This is actually a good example of that,
if you had these two services, but
then you gotta go to payments and
then you go back to users, and
they go to payments again.
And they go somewhere else that are, hey,
you might have a distributed system,
but it's not really efficient,
right, so it really depends, again,
cues are also really good.
In the scenario where you want to say,
a good example of that is asynchronous
processes where you click a button and
then it says, okay,
we're taking care of your process,
give us some time and
go do whatever else you want to, right?
That's about building a user
experience with your architecture,
where in that scenario, you're telling the
user, hey, it's gonna take a second, but
we're not blocking you to stay here.
You can go and do something else and
then when it's done, we'll come back, and
then that allows all the services to
communicate with each other internally,
do whatever they need.
So, there's a few different approaches,
the most common one though,
is this approach here where you have
services speaking directly to each other.
They have designated endpoints,
and again, GRPC,
I think is a really good approach to that,
not only because it works in go,
but GRPC is also available to be created
clients for almost any language.
So, if you had a front end that was Java,
God, I feel sorry for you.
But if you had a front end that was Java,
you could technically unify
those services with GRPC because
Java can create GRPC clients.
But again, if that Java service has to
make five hops, you might find yourself
going on a queue-based system or an
event-based system or something like that.
That's why we're really not going into
that too much in these slides just because
those are a little bit
more circumstantial.
Most of the time,
as long as you're building good isolation,
good separation, this is fine.
Again, whenever we get a Twitch chat
message, we go out to a API for
our data, we go out to an API for
our AI stuff, and those are separated.
But because they're so fast, and
they are easy to respond, we don't really
worry about it, the latency is maybe,
like 250, 300 milliseconds.
And so, that's another thing
you have to ask yourself,
is how quickly are you concerned
about these requests coming through?
And if you need to adapt
to that requirement,
that's a requirement to me more than
something you just think of naturally.